-------------
MILITARY PRISON
-------------

TRAUTMAN
How've you been, Johnny?

TRAUTMAN
(continuing)
I'm sorry you were sent to such a
hellhole.

RAMBO
Seen worse.

TRAUTMAN
You have... haven't you...

RAMBO
Yeah.

TRAUTMAN
Johnny... I told you I'd help you
when I could... you interested?

You can't possibly want to stay in
prison for another five years?

RAMBO
... In here I know where I stand.

TRAUTMAN
Hear me out first.  A covert
operation is being geared up in the
Far East.  The computer dug out your
name as one of the top three able to
accomplish the mission.

RAMBO
What mission?

TRAUTMAN
Recon for P.O.W.'s in Nam.

TRAUTMAN
The prison camp you escaped from in
'71 is the target area -- no one
knows that terrain better than you.
The risk factor is very high.
You'll be temporarily reinstated in
the forces; and if the operation is
successful, there may be a
Congressional pardon... are you in,
John?

TRAUTMAN
Good.  I'll get the necessary
clearances, and the next time we'll
meet, it'll be in Thailand with
Special OP's designate who will
honch the operation.  All clear?

TRAUTMAN
I want you to know I did what I
could to keep you out of here.

RAMBO
I know.

RAMBO
Sir... Do we get to win this time?

TRAUTMAN
This time it's up to you.

-------------
THAILAND BASE
-------------

ERICSON
How ya doing, Rambo, I'm Ericson.
We better make it over to the
hanger.

ERICSON
So you're the chosen one.  You don't
remember me do ya?  We were in boot
camp together in '63.  You went
Forces, I went Rangers... haven't
been stateside since '72.  Plenty of
work here.

ERICSON
You've made a hell of a rep back in
Nam.  Anyway, I'm glad to be workin'
with ya, and... this place may not
be heaven, but at least you're out
of prison.

RAMBO
... Am I?

ERICSON
Pretty soon we'll all be out of a
job.  Somebody oughta blow it to
hell and keep fightin' simple.

TRAUTMAN
This is Marshall Murdock, he is in
charge of special operations from
Washington.

MURDOCK
Thank you, Colonel; I've been
looking forward to meeting you.  So
how was the trip -- no problem?

MURDOCK
Rambo, I glanced through your
files and I must say it provided
interesting reading.
(he opens a folder)
Rambo, John J., born 7/6/47 Bowie,
Arizona of Indian-Italian-German
descent.  Joined army 8/6/64.
Accepted, Special Forces
specialization, light weapons,
crossed-trained as medic.
Helicopter and language qualified --
59 confirmed kills --

MURDOCK
... two Silver Stars, four Bronze,
four Purple Hearts, Distinguished
Service Cross, and the Medal of
Honor... You did get around, didn't
you... incredible.  Now you're
probably aware that there are still
nearly twenty-five hundred Americans
missing in action in Southeast Asia.
Most of these boys are presumed
killed.  But to the League of
Families -- Congress, and to a lot
of Americans, it's still a very
emotional issue.

MURDOCK
Rambo, you certainly don't know as
much about me as I do about you, but
I was honching with the Second
Battalion, Third Marines at Kom Tum
in sixty-six and lost a lot of
good men, so I know what you and
every Vet feels.  Maybe the
government didn't care, maybe
certain sectors of the public didn't
care but my committee cares.  It may
have been a bad war, but the men
weren't bad.

TRAUTMAN
So what his committee needs is
conclusive proof that Americans are
being held.

MURDOCK
And once done, you can be assured
we'll get our men back...
If there's any of our men left at
the P.O.W. targer camp you'll
confirm their presence by taking
photographs.

RAMBO
Photographs?

MURDOCK
Just photographs.  Then you turn
those photos over to me.

RAMBO
I'm supposed to leave them?

MURDOCK
Not exactly -- the phrase two Delta
Force assault team led by Colonel
Trautman will handle the extraction.

MURDOCK
Anyway, I want to say that with your
participation I feel this mission
has a better than average chance of
succeeding where others have
failed... I'll meet you both at the
operations center in one hour.

-------------
THAILAND BASE HANGAR
-------------

TRAUTMAN
From Thailand, across Laos, into the
mountains of Vietnam to the drop
zone.  You'll be flying a ceiling of
250 feet when you bail out, can you
handle it?

RAMBO
Give it a try --

TRAUTMAN
The code name for the insertion and
extraction flight team is
"Dragonfly"; home base "Wolf Den,"
your code name if "Lone Wolf." Since
you're going solo, you are going to
have to rely upon more equipment
than you've ever used before, and
use it -- so what I'm sayin' is,
don't try the "blood and guts"
routine, let technology do most of
the work.  If you need assistance,
call for it.

RAMBO
Let your fingers do the walking.

TRAUTMAN
All of this is for you.

MURDOCK
Besides the monitoring devices you
see here, you'll be issued every
ultra-modern piece of equipment to
insure your safety.
(gestures at the humming equipment)
Rambo, you can feel totally safe
because today we have the most
advanced weapons in the world
available to us.

RAMBO
I believe the mind is the best
weapon.

MURDOCK
... Times change.

RAMBO
For some people.

ERICSON
... Amen.

TRAUTMAN
Upon insertion, call in to base camp
by Transat -- proceed to Point Hawk
September for rendezvous with ground
contact -- indigenous agent Co Bao.

TRAUTMAN
Thirty-six hours to get the hell in
and out, so don't stop to smell the
roses, okay?  If there is any
trouble, try like hell to get to the
Hawk September extraction sight
marked on your map.

TRAUTMAN
Good luck, son.

-------------
TRAUTMAN AND MURDOCK
-------------

TRAUTMAN
Think he'll find someone?

MURDOCK
P.O.W.'s... doubtful... but there's
people to satisfy.  Questions that
have to be answered.

TRAUTMAN
You don't sound too emotional about
it.

MURDOCK
It wasn't my war, Colonel.  I'm just
here to clean up the mess.


-------------
ABORT MISSION
-------------

MURDOCK (V.O.)
Ericson, abort mission!  Pull out!

ERICSON
It'll kill him to change course!

MURDOCK
Maybe the smart thing to do is abort
the mission now before there's any
more complications.  I mean who
could've survived something like
that?

TRAUTMAN
He's got to be given the benefit of
the doubt.  He has 36 hours to carry
out the mission and reach the
extraction site, we owe him that.

MURDOCK
... Of course we do -- but
understand in 36 hours we pull out.

-------------
MEETING WITH CO
-------------

CO
(Viet/subtitled)
Don't kill me!

CO
(continuing, Viet
subtitled)
Let me go, please!

RAMBO
(Viet/subtitled)
Who are you?

CO
(Viet/subtitled)
Co Bao -- Are you the one they send?
Rambo?

CO
(continuing)
I was hiding -- you did not come on
time.  I thought you one of
mercenaries still here.  You did not
expect a woman, no?
(in broken English)
Better speak English, yes?

RAMBO
We better get moving.

CO
Yes, we go to river...
(they start off)
Why you so late?

RAMBO
(dryly)
... Got hung up.

-------------
SMUGGLERS BOAT
-------------

CO
I have arranged transportation down
river -- old routes not safe.

CO
Salt of the earth, yes?

RAMBO
Pirates?

CO
Best way down river -- not get army
suspicious.

KINH
(Viet/subtitled)
Wa-ky number one.  You come number
one sampan.

CO
(Viet/subtitled)
Thank you, Captain, for your
hospitality.

KINH
(Viet/subtitled)
This is the man who wants to go down
river.
(laughs)
You speak Viet?

CO
He does not understand.

KINH
(Viet/subtitled)
You have money?

CO
Half now... half later.

KINH
We leave now.  It's safer --
... Want a drink?  Good for you.

KINH
You stay here -- you want a drink?

RAMBO
What about patrol boats?

KINH
We will have no problems.

CO
You want to rest?

CO
That settles that -- we eat, yes?

CO
You're welcome.

RAMBO
... Want it back?

CO
No, you eat -- How you get into
this?

RAMBO
Long story.

CO
Long ride.

RAMBO
How about you?

CO
My father work for intelligence
agency -- He killed, and I take his
place -- Too much death here.  Death
everywhere... I just want to live,
Rambo.  What you want?

RAMBO
... To win, to survive.

CO
... To survive.

CO
Not so easy to survive here -- Still
war here.

RAMBO
... To survive war, you have to
become war.

CO
That why they pick you because you
like to fight?

RAMBO
... I'm expendable.

CO
Ex-pend-a-ble?

RAMBO
Know what it means?

CO
Don't tell me... It mean if you
invited to party and you do not show
up, it does not matter?  Yes?

Rambo studies her face and slowly nods.  Rambo looks at
the medallion around her neck.

CO
It bring me good luck -- What bring
you good luck?

Rambo slowly reaches down and wraps his fingers around the
butt of his knife then glances over at the lounging
pirates... Co gathers his meaning.

-------------
HANGER MURDOCK'S OFFICE
-------------

TRAUTMAN
Any further reports?

MURDOCK
None so far.

TRAUTMAN
I want to go out with the extraction
team at dawn.

MURDOCK
Denied.

TRAUTMAN
Denied?

MURDOCK
It's too dangerous.

ERICSON
He deserves a chance.

MURDOCK
Colonel, we're a team here.  It's
everyone's worry -- I just think all
things considered it's an
unnecessary risk.

TRAUTMAN
We have a schedule to keep.

MURDOCK
With who?  We don't even know if
Rambo's alive.

LIFER
The odds are against it.

TRAUTMAN
Look, you said we go through as
planned.

MURDOCK
But, if you want to go through with
it, we will!
(to Ericson)
The Colonel will be joining the
extraction team... You're a good
man, Trautman.

-------------
JUNGLES WITH CO
-------------

CO
(to Kinh)
You wait here... We come back, then
pay rest...

CO
We should move closer.

CO
Cyclo-girl whore from village.
Business slow there.
(listens more)
She makes him good deal... very good
deal.

CO
What is it?

RAMBO
A bow -- no sound.

CO
That all you have?

CO
You not going in there? -- But I
thought you were supposed only to
take pictures.

CO
(continuing)
What about orders?

RAMBO
Out here orders stop and people
start.

RAMBO
Come to get you out --

PRISONER
... You American?

RAMBO
Don't talk -- don't move.

BANKS
There are others --

RAMBO
... We'll come back.





EXT.  RIVER P.O.W. CAMP - NIGHT

Rambo and Banks wade into the river.


EXT.  HUT NEAR RIVER - NIGHT

Guard #2 comes from a small hut toward the river.


EXT.  RIVER - RAMBO & BANKS - NIGHT

Rambo reacts and throws his knife.


EXT.  RIVER - GUARD #2 - NIGHT

Dies quickly, silently.

CLOSE GUARD #3

He senses movement and swings his light around (he has not
turned it on yet.)


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - RAMBO - NIGHT

He's moving fairly quick with the P.O.W.  The sickly man
starts to emit a wracking cough.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - GUARD TREE TOWER - NIGHT

The numbed guard is alerted and in a listless manner turns
on his light and flashes it in Rambo's direction.  As the
light slowly swings around, it fully illuminates Rambo.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - RAMBO - NIGHT

A shocking vision of Rambo, bow fully extended aimed
directly at the guard's heart... RACK FOCUS FROM the
jagged arrow point TO Rambo's eyes.  The arrow is fired.


EXT.  GUARD TREE TOWER - NIGHT

The guard slumps forward with an arrow through his chest.
He falls on the light that now shines skyward.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - NIGHT

Co watches with growing apprehension as she sees the
guard's light angled oddly downward.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - PATROL GUARD - NIGHT

The patrol guard spies the oddly angled light and yells
something to the guard.  He flips on his light and aims it
at Tower #1 and sees that his comrade is dead.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - NIGHT

Rambo is hiding against Tay's Barrack with Banks when all
of a sudden the light comes on in the Barrack the spill
illuminates him.  Rambo ducks.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - NIGHT

Patrol guard reacts to Rambo's movements and notices Rambo
against the barrack.  He's about to yell as Rambo kills
him with his throwing knife.  Rambo lunges on the
staggering guard and pulls him from view.


EXT.  TAY'S QUARTERS - OVER RAMBO - NIGHT

Sgt. Tay comes out of his shack and looks.  The whore
pulls him back.  American MUSIC coming from a scratched
RECORD continues.  Rambo moves into the shadows.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - NIGHT

Rambo carrying Banks, walks by a latrine, the door
suddenly swings open almost hitting then in the face as a
prison guard exits and walks directly toward his barrack,
and disappears inside.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - NIGHT

Co seems to have lost sight of Rambo.  She scans the camp
to the treeline and back.

WHAM!  A booted foot smashes down on her arm.  She looks
up at...

A North Vietnamese guard who holds an AK-47 in her face.

Co stares nervously at him.  There is a HISSING SOUND,
then a DULL RIPPING SOUND.

Co looks up to see...

The guard is paralyzed by the arrow lodged in his neck and
pins him to a tree.

Rambo and Banks appear from the undergrowth, bow in
Rambo's hand.

RAMBO
Let's move.

Rambo takes the guard's side arm and places it in his
waistband.


EXT.  SWAMP - DAWN

Rambo and Co carrying Banks.  Rambo sets him down.

RAMBO
Can you walk?

BANKS
I think so --

Banks stops and looks at his two rescuers, his eyes
darting back and forth in their hollow sockets.

BANKS
(continuing)
Who are you?

CO
He is Rambo.  I am Co.

BANKS
Banks -- Lieutenant -- Air Force.

CO
... We must get to the river...
Fast!

Banks sits frozen for a moment.

BANKS
(on the verge of
tears)
... Thank you... you're a miracle.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - DAWN

A stocky Sergeant of the Guard stands over the partially
concealed body of the guard Rambo killed.

He raises his whistle and sends a SHRILL BLAST across the
camp.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - CROSS - DAWN

A guard discovers Banks missing and yells to the rest of
the guards.


EXT.  SWAMP - DAWN

Rambo carrying Banks through the swamp with Co close
behind them.


EXT.  HANGER - DAWN

Lifer, and the ground crew are removing the camouflage
canopy from the Agusta 109 helicopter.  The TURBINES are
warming up with an ascending WHINE.

Ericson and Trautman, f.g., turn as TECH runs toward them.

TECH
You have clearance.

TRAUTMAN
Minus one hour to extraction.

ERICSON
(scowling at his
watch)
We're probably just wasting fuel.

TRAUTMAN
Let's get moving!


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

A squad of Viet soldiers are moving rapidly through the
forest, looking for signs of the escaping prisoner.  Sgt.
Tay is supervising the search.


EXT.  SAMPAN RIVER BANK - DAY

Rambo carrying Banks and Co arrive at the sampan pretty
much as they left it.  The pirates keep watch.


EXT.  SAMPAN RIVER BANK - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo and Co start to help Banks aboard the junk.  Then Co
climbs aboard.  Rambo is still in the water.

CO
L.Z. two K's up river.

BANKS
Good thing you came when you did.

CO
Why's that.

BANKS
They move us around a lot... to
harvest crops.  Only been there a
week.

RAMBO
(confused)
Only a week?

Rambo is alerted by this information.

BANKS
(nods and catches
his breath)
... Yes.

CO
When last time you in camp here?

BANKS
Maybe a year... Hey, what year is
it?

CO
... 1984... Camp supposed to be
empty?

Banks is shaken.

CO
(continuing)
Something not good about mission,
uh, Rambo?

Rambo is starting to put two and two together as he climbs
aboard.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - DAY

At treetop level the all-black helicopter ROARS down a
forested valley at 180 mph.


EXT.  RIVER BANK - DAY

The Viet soldiers arrive at the shore and see the sampan
in a distance too far to shoot at.


EXT.  RIVER BANK - TAY - DAY

As Tay is talking on the radio, obviously notifying
Superiors that the prisoner is escaping via the sampan.


INT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Rambo watches through a chink in the sheeting of the cabin
as the hostile landscape rolls past...

Rambo is alerted by the faint but growing SOUND OF A BOAT
ENGINE.

Rambo moves closer to the slats in the side of the sampan
and peers out... Straining his eyes because of the
difficult angle he becomes startled when a heavily
equipped gunboat appears from around a bend in the
river... the boat was once property of the U.S. Navy.

Before Rambo can turn the two pirates have weapons in his
back, and neck.  One pirate jerks Rambo's .45 free and
stashes it in his waistband.

Co is alert and tries to get to her feet.  One of the
pirates kicks her down and takes her AK-47.  Banks is held
down at gun point.

CO
What has happened?

RAMBO
We're sold out.


EXT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Kinh waves a black piece of cloth from a stick and the
boat draws closer.

Kinh yells at another pirate to take the helm as he goes
inside.


INT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Kinh appears and his friendly smile is gone.  Rambo still
remains frozen with an old high standard auto shotgun
lodged against the back of his head.

KINH
Whore!

Kinh slaps Co viciously... CLOSEUP of Rambo slowly moving
his hand imperceptibly toward his back.

KINH
(continuing)
You help this -- American pig!

He slaps Rambo, who uses the moment to catch one pirate
off guard and kills him with his knife.  Then throws the
knife into Pirate #2's heart.


INT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Rambo picks up the auto shotgun and FIRES.


EXT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Kinh seeing this panics and heads out of the cabin.  Then
suddenly explodes from the threshold and sprawls like a
rag doll across the deck.


EXT.  GUNBOAT - RIVER - DAY

The military men become alert and hasten toward the
sampan... The Captain yells an order to prepare to shoot.


EXT.  SAMPAN - DECK - DAY

Rambo appears on deck with a vengeance... He blows three
more pirates away with deadly SHOTGUN BLASTS.


INT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Co sees the outline of another pirate rushing toward Rambo
and FIRING through the bamboo, blows him clear off the
boat.


EXT.  GUNBOAT - DAY

On the gunboat the Captain commands his gunner to fire.


EXT.  SAMPAN - DAY

The SHELL HITS the bow, ten feet from Rambo, destroying
the front of the boat...

RAMBO
(to Co)
Get to the shore!


EXT.  SAMPAN - DAY

ANOTHER EXPLOSION on deck that nearly finds the mark...
The boat is sinking fast.


INT.  SAMPAN - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo enters the cabin... He flips open the locker and
pulls out the R.P.G. rocket launcher.


INT.  SAMPAN - CO - DAY

Co is FIRING wildly at the patrol boat that is bearing
down with surprising speed.

RAMBO
(furiously)
Take him and jump!

Rambo shoulders the R.P.G. and takes aim.


INT.  SAMPAN - CO AND BANKS - DAY

Co slings her rifle across her shoulder and taking charge
of Banks heads out of the cabin.


EXT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Co jumps into the brown water with Banks.


EXT.  GUNBOAT - DAY

The Captain is about to yell "Fire."


INT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Rambo's finger tightens around the trigger and the WEAPON
BELCHES an awesome flame.


EXT.  GUNBOAT - DAY

The shot is perfect and the superstructure on the deck
EXPLODES into the sky, killing everyone... but the patrol
boat is out of control and is about to ram the sampan.


INT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Seeing this inferno bearing down on them, Rambo sprints at
full run, grabs his knife out of the dead pirate, picks up
his black bow pouch and lunges out of the cabin like a
jungle cat.


EXT.  SAMPAN - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo appears on deck and dives into the river as the
patrol boat is barely inches away.


EXT.  RIVER - DAY

The gunboat and the sampan collide with a MIGHTY ROAR, as
Rambo just breaks the water's surface.


EXT.  RIVER BANK - VIET SOLDIERS - DAY

A group of North Vietnamese soldiers at the river bank
hear the explosion of the boats and head off in that
direction.


EXT RIVER - RAMBO - DAY

He surfaces and glances back at the burning debris then
for the whereabouts of Co and Banks.  He spies them on the
shoreline.


EXT.  RIVERBANK - DAY

Co and Banks still out of breath, move out of anxiety than
exhaustion.  Rambo joins them.  Banks studies Rambo with
awe.

CO
... Knew you were a good man.

Rambo shoulders Banks.

RAMBO
... Let's move.

They start off.


EXT.  MOVING WITH THE A109 - DAY

as it rises and drops with the terrain.


INT.  A109 - DAY

Once again Ericson is flying.  He puts the landing skids
through the treetops.

Trautman sits behind the seats in the main bay.

The AIR ROARS in the open door and Lifer, on door gun,
dangles his legs in the windstream.  The rain forest is a
dim blur very close below.

Lifer racks the bolt on his M-60 and grins.  Trautman nods
politely and looks at his watch.

CUT TO:

EXT.  RAIN FOREST - NEAR RICE PADDIES - DAY

Rambo's group heads for the elevated landing zone.

The vista is quite stunning as the cold light suffuses the
rain forest, giving it a haunting quality.  Rambo scans
the ridge line with intense concentration.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - RAMBO'S POV - DAY

Figures of twenty or more Vietnamese soldiers can be seen
threading upward among the trees.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - DAY

Rambo hands his quiver and bow to Co.

RAMBO
... I won't be needin' it now...
Trade you.

She hands over the rifle.

RAMBO
(continuing)
There's explosives in the pouch.

CO
... It better I stay till end.

RAMBO
This is the end.

CO
... I want to stay... Now we have
chance, why don't you take me back?

RAMBO
Where?

CO
America... You can do if you want --
take me back as wife... You don't
have to live with.  Just help me get
away from this.

RAMBO
I came for P.O.W.'s -- How would it
look if I came back with a wife?

CO
Look like you hell of a man.

Rambo shakes his head "no."

CO
(continuing, softly)
What the matter?  Not allow to feel
-- maybe dead inside already.  Don't
we die soon enough.  Just thought
I'd ask.

A long look exchanged between Rambo and Co, then Co kisses
his cheek and turns to head off along a diverging trail.
She turns.

CO
(continuing)
Rambo... you not expendable.

Rambo watches her go and then turns to Banks.

RAMBO
... Let's go.


INT.  A109 - DAY

Trautman watches over Ericson's shoulder as the HELICOPTER
ROARS between the walls of the mountain pass.  The ship is
buffeted by turbulence, bouncing and dropping violently.

ERICSON
(turning)
Three minutes.

The steep slopes fall away and Ericson dives the ship
across the rolling foothills.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - DAY

Rambo is crouched with Banks beside a large tree.

They are taking AUTOMATIC WEAPONS FIRE from the trees
nearby.  Spurts of earth leap up around them.

Rambo fires a short, controlled BURST down at the
ascending troops.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - DAY

Sgt. Tay is eyeing Rambo and Banks through binoculars as
they move further up the hill.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - TAY'S POV

of Rambo and Banks.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - DAY

NVA regulars set up mortars.  Roughly aimed.  They FIRE
with a characteristic WHUMP.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - DAY

The Americans duck as a MORTAR ROUND EXPLODES behind them,
tearing down trees.


EXT.  A109 - DAY

In the distance Rambo and Banks are seen.  They are
surrounded.  They move out of the tree line into a
sparsely vegetated area that runs along the very ridge of
the towering hill.  The chopper opens fire with its
machine guns and the NVA soldiers back off.


INT.  A109 - ON TRAUTMAN - DAY

as he reacts to below.  Ericson is firing the machine gun.

TRAUTMAN
That's Rambo! -- Christ, he's found
one.  Relay the command.  Rambo's
found one of ours!


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Murdock is pacing behind the main console.

TELECOM TECH
Mr. Murdock... I have an AWACS
relay.  Dragonfly reports the ground
team has what appears to be an
American P.O.W. with them.

Murdock's reaction is unexpected.  He whips around.

MURDOCK
What did you say?

TELECOM TECH
(grinning)
They've got one of ours.


INT.  HANGER - TIGHT ON MURDOCK - DAY

as a look of calm is replaced by mounting rage.

MURDOCK
(loudly)
This station is now on Condition
Bravo.  Harrison!  Meyers!  Goodell!
Out... now!

The puzzled Techs drop their headsets and leave.

MURDOCK
(continuing, to Tech)
Go to your COMINT priority push.
Give me the mike... Dragonfly, this
is Wolf Den Six.  This is an Alpha-
Kilo-Victor command priority.

ERICSON (V.O.)
(filtered)
Roger, Wolf Den Six... go ahead.

MURDOCK
I want you to abort the operation
immediately.  I say again, abort.
This is a recall, confirm, over.


INT.  A109 - DAY

The men have impassive expressions.

ERICSON
Say again, Wolf Den Six.

He presses the helmet-headphone tight to his ear, then
turns to Trautman, cupping his hand over the mike.

ERICSON
(continuing, to
Trautman)
I've been ordered to abort before
pickup.

TRAUTMAN
He must be crazy!  Confirm it!

ERICSON
Confirmation's not necessary.

TRAUTMAN
(grabs a microphone)
... Murdock, for Christ sake, we
have them in sight!  Murdock!  Do
you read?!!  We're going down.

LIFER
You're not going anywhere.

Lifer holds a rifle in their direction.

TRAUTMAN
What the Hell are you doing?!

ERICSON
Can't do that.

TRAUTMAN
That's an order!

ERICSON
(implacable)
We're independent contractors.  We
take our orders from who's paying.

TRAUTMAN
Goddamn mercenaries!  There's men
down there!  Our men!

LIFER
Not our men, your men!  Don't be a
hero.

Trautman reaches for his holstered .45, a voice stops him.

LIFER
... Don't.

Trautman turns and sees Lifer aiming a rifle not exactly
at him but not away either.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - DAY

Rambo half-supports Banks with one arm and FIRES his AK
with the other.

The rifle is empty and he drops it.  MORTAR ROUNDS EXPLODE
on all sides.  They watch the A109 skimming in low across
the tree tops, almost to them... hovers and then...

It veers in a tight bank and climbs out.

Heads away.

The dust swirls around them.  A MORTAR SHELL LANDS so
close it knocks them down.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - DAY - CLOSEUP - RAMBO

as he looks at Ericson.

CLOSEUP

of Ericson.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES

Framed against the grey sky, Rambo watches as the A109
diminishes over his shoulder until it's a black dot.  He
is so consumed with rage that his expression goes slack...
blank... a murderous disconnection from conscience.

Banks looks stunned, lost.  He sags to one knee.

Rambo just keeps looking in the direction of the A109.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - NVA - DAY

From both sides the NVA soldiers advance like ants to the
top of the ridge...


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo glances down almost disdainful then back at the
nearly diminished chopper.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - HILL NEARBY - DAY

Co, watching from behind foliage, as the NVA's converge on
Rambo and Banks.  Her expression enigmatic.  She turns and
disappears into the forest.


INT.  MURDOCK'S QUARTERS - DAY

Murdock is pouring scotch over ice in a glass as the DOOR
behind him BANGS OPEN.

Trautman is furious.

TRAUTMAN
What're you doing?  Do you know what
the hell you've done?!!

Murdock stands up quickly, a glass of scotch in his hand.

MURDOCK
Don't act so innocent, Colonel.  You
had your suspicions, and if you
suspected then, you're sort of an
accessory, aren't you?

Trautman smashes the glass from his hand.

TRAUTMAN
Don't ever count me with you and
your scum.  It was a lie, wasn't it?
Just like the whole damn war, a lie!

MURDOCK
What are you talking about?

TRAUTMAN
The camp was supposed to be empty.
Rambo goes in... a former decorated
Vet.  He finds no P.O.W.'s.  The
Congress buys it, case closed.  If
he gets caught, no one knows he's
alive except you and your computers,
and you can reprogram that, can't
you?

MURDOCK
Who do you think you're talking to,
Trautman?

TRAUTMAN
A stinking bureaucrat trying to
cover his ass!

MURDOCK
Not just mine, Trautman, a nation's!
It was your hero's fault.  If your
"warrior" had done what the hell he
was told, we'd be out of this clean
and simple.  All he was supposed to
do is to take pictures!

TRAUTMAN
And if the pictures showed something
they would've been lost, wouldn't
they?!

Murdock is terribly on edge.

MURDOCK
Look, I don't think you understand
what this is all about, Trautman!

TRAUTMAN
Same as it always is, money.  In
'72 we were supposed to pay the
"Cong" four and a half billion in
war reparations, we reneged, and
they kept the P.O.W.'s, and now
you're doing it all over again!

MURDOCK
(exploding)
And what the hell would you suggest
we do if some burnt-out P.O.W. shows
up on the six o'clock news -- fight
the war all over again?  Have an
invasion!  Bomb Hanoi?  Do you think
anybody is going to get on the floor
of the United States Senate and ask
billions of dollars for a couple of
forgotten ghosts!

TRAUTMAN
(roaring)
Men!  Men who died for their
country, you bastard!

MURDOCK
Enough, I'm going to forget this
meeting ever took place, and I'd
advise you to never make the mistake
of bringing this subject up again.

Trautman turns, starts out, then turns back to Murdock.

TRAUTMAN
You're the one who's making the
mistake...

Murdock pauses.

MURDOCK
What "mistake?"

TRAUTMAN
(dryly)
... Rambo.

As soon as Trautman utters the name, we hear SHOUTING in
Vietnamese and the SOUND OF A BACKHAND ACROSS FLESH.


EXT.  PRISON CAMP - RAMBO - DAY

He's hung above the slime pit.  His muddy face grimaces as
it is hit by Sgt. Tay.  Tay curses him in Vietnamese.


EXT.  SLIME PIT - SGT. TAY - DAY

Powerful and vicious-looking as a rabid ferret.  He raises
one fist, and smashes it down, hitting Rambo.

There is another SICKENING IMPACT against flesh.


INT.  PRISONERS' CAVE - CELL - DAY

Another WHACK!  heard from across the compound.  All the
P.O.W.'s are there.

Two of them, b.g., seem completely autistic.  The others
seem to wince, as one, with Banks, as the WHACKS ECHO
across the compound.


EXT.  PRISON YARD - SLIME PIT - DAY

Off to one side of the camp in a gloomy shaded area is the
pit that is filled with slime.  It is ten feet deep, eight
feet wide.  CAPTAIN VINH, a severe-looking tyrant,
observes Sgt. Tay standing on a pair of planks near Rambo,
who is being slowly submerged in the slime up to his neck.

Sgt. Tay looks to Capt. Vinh who nods and Tay backhands
Rambo across the face.  Rambo spits.

Tay has Rambo's special knife tucked in his waistband.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - WIDE SHOT - DAY

The GRINDING SOUND of two arriving transport trucks, draws
everyone's attention... Out of the truck climb a troop of
15 Russians.  Soldiers, members of the elite Soviet
Airborne Division, dressed in dark fatigues.

From truck two 15 Vietnamese soldiers emerge.


EXT.  CAMP - HUEY - DAY

A thunderous WHIPPING SOUND is heard and the camp begins
to fill with spinning dust as an American made "Huey"
helicopter descends, landing near the guard towers.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - HUEY - DAY

The Viet officers and guards cringe against the rotor
blast as the ship settles.  The side door slides open.


EXT.  SLIME PIT - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo tries to see through his watering eyes, but is
blinded by the blast.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - HUEY - DAY

Out step three Russian giants in black fatigues and
berets.  They are also members of the elite Soviet 3rd
Airborne Division.  Lastly two Russian officers disembark.
They eye the Russian soldiers standing at attention.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - OFFICERS - DAY

They glance at Rambo for a split second and motion to
Captain Vinh to remove Rambo.  Vinh yells an order at a
pair of guards who start to pull at a pair of ropes and
slowly hoist Rambo from the slimy pit.


EXT.  SLIME PIT - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo is pulled upright and we can see that he is bound to
a pole in a crucified position... Upon closer inspection
we see his body is covered with at least twenty huge
blood-gorged leeches.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - OFFICERS - DAY

The two Russian officers approach and coldy eye Rambo who
is slightly suspended above them... Capt. Vinh and Sgt.
Tay stand near the Russians.  PODOVSK, the shorter,
brighter-looking of the two, pulls Rambo's knife from
Tay's waistband and, with a casual air, uses the tip of
the razor-sharp knife to sever a black leech from the base
of Rambo's neck... He handles the knife like a masterful
surgeon.

PODOVSK
These people are so vulgar in their
methods.  They lack compassion.  I
am Lieutenant Podovsk.  I do not
know who you are yet -- But I will.
(Viet/subtitled)
... Inside.

INT.  PRISON CAVE CELL - DAY

Through the bars, Banks and the two other P.O.W.'s can
catch a fleeting glimpse of Rambo being dragged away.  An
older PRISONER speaks up in a weak voice.

P.O.W. (OLDER MAN)
He's dead now.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Vinh sends the gawking guards scurrying with strident
yells as he follows the two Russians into the room.  The
Soviets stand in front of Rambo.  He is bare from the
waist up.  Lt. Commander Podovsk has a hard face, sharp
features.  His bearing is erect, arrogant.  He still has
Rambo's knife in his hand, which he uses like a painter
when he speaks.

The other, SGT. YUSHIN, is another story.  A tall, broad
slab of combat muscle.  His hair cut short as a scrub
brush.  Thick and functional as state sculpture, his
features cannot fill his broad, flat face Nordic
Mongolian-Circassian heritage... He wears a pine tree
patch on his shoulder denoting his status as a "plastune"
or cossack scout.

PODOVSK
(in Russian)
In the chair.

Yushin hauls Rambo into a wooden stool against the wall.
In front of him is a radio and a transmitter.  Yushin's
eyes move over Rambo's wounds.  He looks quickly into
Rambo's eyes, then moves away from him.

Podovsk sits next to him on a small metal desk.

The only light is from a single bare bulb.

PODOVSK
(continuing, in Viet
to Vinh)
Thank you, Captain Vinh.  Leave one
guard please.

Vinh exits with Tay and the other three Viets.  Yushin
prepares torture equipment.

Podovsk adjusts his wire-rim glasses and considers Rambo.
He turns Rambo's bruised face gently, and examines the
marks left by the leeches.

Podovsk walks behind him and notices the long crisscrossed
scars on Rambo's chest and back.

PODOVSK
(continuing, painting
with the knife)
I see you are no stranger to pain...
(pause)
Is it possible you have been among
my Vietnamese comrades before?  No
answer.  I see.  Do you wish to tell
me your name -- what harm can that
cause?

Rambo stares through Podovsk.

PODOVSK
(continuing)
Pride is a poor substitute for
intelligence... Well, no matter.
What you must understand is that we
have to interrogate you.  We will
find out what you were doing.

He gestures to his massive assistant.

PODOVSK
(continuing)
To Sergeant Yushin, you are a piece
of meat, a laboratory experiment.
To me, you are a comrade similar to
myself just opposed by a matter of
fate.

Rambo eyes the torture equipment in Yushin's hands.

PODOVSK
(continuing)
I know you were trying to facilitate
the release of war criminals held by
this republic.  I can appreciate
this --

Rambo just stares.

PODOVSK
(continuing)
But this -- your capture -- this
incident is -- embarrassing.  You
must understand.  We must have
explanation.  First I wish for you
to radio back to your headquarters
and say you found no prisoners, that
your operation was a failure.

Podovsk holds up the microphone.  Still no response.

PODOVSK
(continuing)
No?  You wish to test your strength
-- very good.
(to Yushin)
Proceed.

Podovsk slips the knife into a pan of smoking hot coal
that is situated in clear view of Rambo.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - YUSHIN - DAY

Yushin walks forward.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - MAIN GATE - NIGHT

The guard in the hollow of the tree, glances up at the
SOUND OF AN APPROACHING MOTORBIKE.  A young woman, wearing
an ao-dai and coolie hat, rides up on a scooter and stops
by the shack.  Strapped onto the scooter is the pouch
containing the bow.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - MAIN GATE - NIGHT

OVER the girl's shoulder as she steps up to the guard box
and coos something to the sentry.

He grins to see a new face among the whores from the
village, and one so pretty...


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - MAIN GATE - REVERSE ON GIRL - NIGHT

It is Co.  She dickers price through the sentry box
window.  He unlatches the gate.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

An iron bedframe has been brought in and leaned vertically
against the wall opposite the door... Charcoal smoke fills
the room.

Rambo has been tied to the frame spread-eagle by length of
wire around his ankles, neck and forearms at the elbows.
His body is contorted in agonizing pain as electricity
courses through his flesh.

PODOVSK
The name --

No response from Rambo and Yushin twists a large rheostat
knob.

Rambo convulses with an explosive muscle contraction.
Slams against the springs.  His veins swell as if to
burst.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP COURTYARD - NIGHT

The lights of the camp dim, flickering, under the current
load.


INT./ EXT.  MESS HUT - NIGHT

Vinh and Russians are eating together.  They react to the
camp lights flicker.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Rambo slams convulsively against the electric grid formed
by the steel bed.  His teeth are clenched as if he has
tetanus.


INT.  PRISONERS' CAVE - NIGHT

They watch the lights outside come up to normal
brightness.  Banks closes his eyes, sharing a ghost of the
pain.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Rambo hangs from his bonds, heaving and shivering.

Podovsk turns to him conversationally, as if he were an
acquaintance at work.

PODOVSK
Comrade, here is something you might
be interested in.

He draws a folded piece of paper from his pocket.  Opens
it.

PODOVSK
(continuing)
A transcript of the conversation
between your helicopter pilot and
his commander we intercepted.
(reading)
Mmmm.  "Dragonfly... Slam Dunk."
Colorful names.  Here we are -- "Ah,
Coach One... we have them in sight."
And the reply -- "Abort the
operation immediately.  Return to
base camp."

He jerks Rambo's head back and he graciously shows Rambo
the printout.

PODOVSK
(continuing)
It seems they abandoned you on
direct orders.  These are the people
you protect with your pain? -- You
may scream.  There is no shame.

Podovsk snaps his fingers and Yushin turns the knob.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP COURTYARD - NIGHT

Co, moving stealthily out of a barrack... as she moves the
CAMERA ANGLES DOWN to reveal the outstretched legs of a
dead soldier.


INT.  INTERROGATION CELL - NIGHT

Rambo hangs so limply that he might be dead.  Podovsk
moves in to check as Rambo's head begins to rise.

PODOVSK
Good... You are strong -- The
strongest so far -- but you are
nearly dead -- for what?  Make the
radio call... yes?

The door opens and Banks is shoved by Sgt. Tay.  Around
his neck is a then wire that is being twisted by Tay...
Yushin takes Banks and flings him brutally against the
wall.

PODOVSK
(continuing)
Yushin has a memento for you of
this occasion.

Yushin presses the molten tip against Rambo's cheek
leaving a shearing triangular smoking scar... through it
all, Rambo remains trance-like, not moving at all.

Podovsk motions to Yushin, toward Banks.

PODOVSK
(continuing, bored)
... Put it in his eye.

Yushin turns as Tay jerks Banks' head back.

PODOVSK
(continuing)
If your life means nothing, perhaps
his does.

Yushin takes the knife and begins to slowly direct the
point into the center of Banks' eye...

PODOVSK
(continuing)
You will talk.


INT.  INTERROGATION CELL - TIGHT ON RAMBO - NIGHT

His eyes seem like diamond drills.  There is such
determination born of rage in his expression that Podovsk
stops.  Takes a step back.

PODOVSK
... Yes?

The knife moves closer to Banks' pupil...

BANKS
Don't say nothin'!
(to Yushin)
Do what you want.

The knife moves closer.  Podovsk looks at Rambo for an
answer.

PODOVSK
... Yes?

Rambo weakly nods.  Podovsk nods to his assistant who
loosens his death grip on Banks who chokes.  Yushin
replaces the knife in the hot coals.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - NEAR INTERROGATION CELL - NIGHT

Co ducks out of sight as a pair of NVA guards pause in her
path to have a cigarette.  They are distracted by the
sudden THUNDER and lightning that follows.


INT.  INTERROGATION CELL - NIGHT

Rambo is helped to the table.  He seems on the verge of
collapse... Banks leans against the wall still in the
clutches of Yushin.  THUNDER shakes the room.

PODOVSK
Only fools die for a lost cause.

Rambo is roughly pushed onto a stool by an NVA guard.
Podovsk motions for Sgt. Tay to leave.

PODOVSK
(continuing)
I trust you know the proper transmit
coordinates, yes?

Rambo nods.

PODOVSK
(continuing)
You will state your name -- that
you've been captured as a spy!  You
will state that the mission was a
failure and all missions will fail.
Tell them not to attempt such
hostile aggression again.  Do you
understand?

BANKS
Don't do it!

Yushin tightens the wire around Banks' neck.

PODOVSK
Do it now!

Podovsk motions to Yushin  who releases Banks and
balefully stares at the agonized American.

RAMBO
... 220-56 Lone Wolf -- receive.

BANKS
(softly)
Don't --

Banks is viciously slammed to the floor and we CUT on
impact -- He is now unconscious.


INT.  HANGER - NIGHT

The center is still manned by an assortment of military
personnel who are starting to dismantle some of the space
age equipment.

Trautman stands in the hanger.  He looks like a forlorn
soul as he stares blankly into the darkness.

Rambo's weak voice transmission manages to break through
the DIN of the operations center.

RAMBO (V.O.)
Wolf Den -- This is... Lone Wolf --
do you read?  Over.

Trautman along with nearly everyone present snaps to
attention --

RADIO OPERATOR
Lone Wolf!  This is Wolf Den.
Transmit location and status, over.

Murdock is seen rushing in, followed by Ericson.

MURDOCK
What is it?!

RADIO OPERATOR
... It's Rambo, sir.

Murdock looks sharply at Trautman.


INT.  INTERROGATION CELL - NIGHT

Rambo sits at the radio sweating profusely.  This appears
to be the hardest mental task for a tight-lipped soldier
of his caliber to perform.

RADIO (V.O.)
We read you, Lone Wolf -- what is
your position -- over.

Banks is slumped unconscious against the wall.

Yushin pulls Rambo's head back with a vicious snap.

RADIO OPERATOR (V.O.)
What's your position, over?

PODOVSK
... Your position will be death if
you do not answer.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - EXTREME CLOSEUP - NIGHT

Yushin lets Rambo's head loose.  Beads of sweat drop from
Rambo's nose as his hands tighten around the rusted
microphone.


INT.  HANGER - NIGHT

Trautman snatches the microphone away from the operator.

TRAUTMAN
John, this is Trautman -- where the
hell are you?


INT.  INTERROGATION CELL - NIGHT

Rambo leans closer to the microphone, but still remains
silent.

TRAUTMAN (V.O.)
Johnny, come in!

Rambo shifts his gaze to Podovsk, then his eyes harden
into orbs of defiant granite.

RAMBO
... Murdock.

TRAUTMAN (V.O.)
He's here!


INT.  HANGER - NIGHT

Murdock moves forward, his body stiff with apprehension --
Trautman hands him the microphone.  Murdock looks around
as all eyes are riveted on him.

MURDOCK
Rambo -- This is Murdock -- we're
glad you're alive... where are you?
Give us your position and we'll come
and get you, over.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Rambo leans forward until his lips nearly touch the
microphone.  (Lightning and THUNDER effect.)

RAMBO
(chilling)
... Murdock, I'm coming to get you.

Rambo strikes Yushin across the face with the
microphone... Podovsk goes for his weapon.

Yushin rises and goes for Rambo.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

The floor EXPLODES and we see Co under the floor boards
with gun in hand.  She kills the NVA soldier whose rifle
is aimed at Rambo.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Rambo slams the pistol into Yushin's temple and elbows
Podovsk in the jaw.  He flings Yushin against the electric
bedframe, which jolts the huge Russian.  Rambo grabs his
knife and is about to run Podovsk through when the door
slams open.

Sgt. Tay and three soldiers enter, his expression agape.

Rambo bolts to the window.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP NEAR INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Rambo jumps through the window -- Co joins him and they
run through the darkness as the camp comes alive.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP NEAR INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Sgt. Tay and his three men turn the corner in pursuit.  Co
cuts two of them down.

Sgt. Tay drops back and yells for reinforcements.


EXT.  P.O.W. COURTYARD - NIGHT

A Russian runs up, AK-47 in hand.  Before he can fire,
Rambo spins into him with a flying kick which pitches him
onto his back, an inert heap... Rambo takes the AK-47 and
blows one of the spotlights and the guard to bits.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - NIGHT

The camp goes nearly black.

The second tower swings its light toward Rambo and Co.
Rambo OPENS FIRE, shattering the light and causing the
guard to dive for his life.

With Co close behind him, Rambo runs toward the compound
fence.

A running Russian and Co OPEN UP with their assault
RIFLES.  Lightning and THUNDER continues simultaneously.

The Russian is hit in the leg and dives for cover.

Rambo lifts the wire for Co to wriggle under.  His hands
bleed as the wire cuts deeply into his flesh.  Co FIRES at
several approaching guards as Rambo slips under the wire
on his back, holding the wire up with his hands, shredding
his pants.

Rambo and Co make it into the forest, running full out.
More AK's OPEN UP behind them.  Both tower PK's have been
manned again.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - NIGHT

Preceding Rambo at a dead run, as he crashes through
foliage.  The forest is a blur.  TRACERS WHIP BY, ruler-
straight lines of red light.

BARK EXPLODES from tree trunks around them.  Leaves are
ripped into confetti.

RAMBO
This way!

They angle away from the blind FIRING and spring away
along the trail, disappearing in a moment.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - NIGHT

Podovsk's nose and mouth are bleeding, he strides out of
the interrogation blockhouse followed by Yushin.  He jerks
Sgt. Tay to his feet by the collar.  He points to the
forest.

PODOVSK
(Viet/subtitled)
Find!  Now!

Yushin releases the Viet Sergeant.  Tay weakly yells
orders to his men.

PODOVSK
(continuing, to the
Russians)
Find and kill him.


INT.  HANGER - NIGHT

Murdock pacing in front of the computers.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - NIGHT

Rambo and Co at a dead run, zigzag along the dark game
trail.

The path steepens and he claws at exposed roots...
climbing as much as running.  Behind them is the rising
SOUND OF HELICOPTER ROTORS.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - NIGHT

Using hand lights to follow his footprints, Tay's squad of
six guards jogs into the jungle.  Behind them, through the
trees, the Huey rises into the night.

The chopper switches on the high intensity searchlights as
it THUNDERS overhead.  Shafts of light pierce the jungle.
Sweeping.  Searching.


EXT.  FOREST - NIGHT

Rambo and Co are climbing rapidly, using roots as hand-
holds to ascend the steep trail.

The WHUMP-WHUMP of the HELICOPTER approaches and the glare
of light flickering behind them.

Rambo moves into a densely woven thicket.  Russians move
quietly f.g.


EXT.  FOREST - NIGHT

Rambo and Co run down into a dip and into thick jungle.


EXT.  FOREST - NIGHT

Rambo and Co crash through foliage as a searchlight sweeps
toward them.

It races over them backlighting them as they dive off the
trail.

The searchlight flicks past them.  Snaps back.  Tay and
his men in b.g.


INT./ EXT.  HELICOPTER - NIGHT

POV of figures running followed by spotlight.


EXT.  FOREST TRAIL - NIGHT

TRACERS rip down through the trees from the helicopter.


EXT.  FOREST TRAIL - NIGHT

Rambo and Co tear through the jungle.

They dive over the edge of a muddy ravine, dropping
through tangled vines.  Catching, clawing, dropping.  They
run on.


EXT.  FOREST TRAIL - NIGHT

The Russians can't target them.


EXT.  FOREST - RAMBO AND CO - NIGHT

They hit a solid trail and sprint, really covering ground.
The shaft of light scans back and forth behind them.  Then
farther away.  They've lost them.  For the moment.


EXT.  ABOVE JUNGLE CANOPY - NIGHT

as the chopper circles, probing with lances of light.

CUT TO:

EXT.  ELEVATED OVERHANGING ROCKS - DAWN

Rambo and Co have taken shelter in the protective contours
of the rocks and overgrowth...

The helicopter moves off in the opposite direction... Co
and Rambo catch their breath.

CO
(softly)
... We safe for now -- you look like
hell, Rambo.

RAMBO
Tough night.

Rambo stares at her and almost has to smile.  She hands
over Rambo's bow kit, which was slung over her shoulder.

CO
(continuing)
... maybe need this again.

Rambo takes the bow kit and Co looks at his bleeding
hands.

CO
(continuing, moving
very close)
You hurt bad... Not so in-vo-nerable
after all.

RAMBO
... No.

CO
You rest a while, I watch.

RAMBO
(shakes his head)
... I'll watch.

CO
... What you do, Rambo?  Try to get
across to Thailand?

RAMBO
Yes.

CO
Then America.

Rambo nods.

CO
(continuing)
You take me with you, Rambo?  I give
you one more chance.

RAMBO
... You don't know me.

CO
I know enough -- you take me?

Rambo stares at her and nods.

CO
(continuing)
I think you make a good choice.

RAMBO
... Yeah.
(rises)
Better move.

Co rises and trails behind Rambo.

NOISE.  She turns and FIRES... And Tay with four soldiers
hit the deck.


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Russians and Viets nearby react, then head toward the
shots.


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Sgt. Tay OPENS FIRE with a small machine gun then the
soldiers open up on Co and she is riddled to the ground.

RAMBO
... No!!!

Rambo leaps to her fallen rifle and rolling behind a
protective object, FIRES BACK and blows two of the
soldiers away... Rambo moves to another position.


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Tay barks something in Viet to a soldier and slips
fearfully away.


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Rambo flanks the soldier and soldier turns to see smoking
death racing toward him.  He falls dead... Rambo rushes to
Co.

He cradles her for a moment and his expression transforms
into insane rage.

Co rolls her glazed eyes to Rambo.

CO
... You good man, Rambo... good.
Not forget me.

Co dies in his arms and Rambo roars with grief.  The
hunted man becomes the hunter... Rambo scoops her up and
disappears into the forest.


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Trautman is there, nervously pacing, agitated.  Murdock
sits solidly behind his desk... Ericson sits on the other
side of the room.

MURDOCK
Do you really think that you can
threaten me, Colonel?

TRAUTMAN
I want the rescue team ready to go
in one hour.

MURDOCK
(almost amused)
You're risking your career, your
reputation and your family's
security -- do you think any one
person is worth that, Trautman?

TRAUTMAN
... Yes, I do.

MURDOCK
I'm giving you a direct order to
withdraw from this project.

TRAUTMAN
Do I get the rescue team, or do I
have to go over your head?

MURDOCK
Colonel, it's time you understand
I'm in charge here -- here you're a
tool, we're the machine --
(to Ericson)
I want him placed under arrest.
He's not to leave the base.

TRAUTMAN
He never had a chance did he?

MURDOCK
... Like you said, he went home.


EXT.  FOREST TRAIL - DAY

A small band of Viet soldiers are moving through the
jungle searching for Rambo.


EXT.  FOREST - TIGHT ON RAMBO'S FACE - DAY

Starts to rain.

Eyes closed, he has smeared the goo thoroughly over his
face.  It is a neolithic, feral visage.  He has buried Co
and pauses on one knee at the gravesite... around his neck
hangs her "good luck" medallion.  He has cut a strip of
her garment and with great deliberation ties it around his
head.  Rambo rises with his bow in his hand and arrows
across his back... He is the warrior and the war has now
begun.


EXT.  FOREST - ON SEVEN RUSSIANS AND A SERGEANT - DAY

Moving forward cautiously, they glide through the dense
rain and thicket.


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Rambo watches motionless -- and then kills the sergeant
and Russian #2 with arrows.


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Through rain Russians materialize searching for Rambo.
Into f.g. comes a Russian, parts bushes with rifle, turns
past hollow tree.  An arm comes out and pulls him in.  He
stiffens as Rambo's knife kills him.


EXT.  FOREST - MED.  RAMBO - DAY

moving in absolute silence nearby.  He freezes and raises
his bow.  Thirty meters away are the Russians... An arrow
sinks into Russian #3's chest... Russian #4 and #5 sprint
away... To a different position for defense they motion to
split up and a second arrow burrows into Russian #4's
chest and lungs as he moves.  He falls dead and Russian #5
is frozen, until he sees what appears to be Rambo's
fleeing form and takes chase.


EXT.  FOREST - VIET GUARDS - DAY

wave their AK's, looking for some sign of Rambo.  They
hear SOMETHING CRASHING through the downpour and
undergrowth.  Movement in dense brush.  They OPEN FIRE.

The CRASH OF SUSTAINED FIRE is deafening.  They BLAST
blindly.

Their attention is so focused, the DIN SO LOUD, they do
not notice a dark figure moving up behind them.

Rambo snatches the wayward last guard into a thicket.  A
knife slashes, one Viet guard drops dead.

Tay shouts repeatedly to cease firing and the others
finally stop.

TAY
(Viet/subtitled)
We got him!

They move away, advancing on their "target".  Tay gingerly
parts woven branches, revealing Russian #5 riddled with
hundreds of 7.62mm rounds.


EXT.  FOREST - VIET GUARDS - DAY

Tay barks at his men to sweep the area in an arc.  The
guards advance, stricken with a growing unease.


EXT.  FOREST - BLACK HOLE - DAY

Rambo traps Russian #6 with a vine around his feet.  He
slides down into a black hole and Rambo slits his throat.


EXT.  FOREST - TWO RUSSIANS - DAY

They separate near a mudbank, one going over the
embankment... the other near the river's edge.

RUSSIAN #8
No, this way... where are you?

In the incessant rain, Russian #8 moves cautiously to his
comrade's last position.  Ahead, face down in the mud, is
the body of Russian #7.

Approaching the body, the frightened Russian looks around
in full circle.  Nothing.  He moves by a mudbank.


EXT.  FOREST - MUDBANK/MUDHOLE - DAY

Rambo comes out of the mudhole and breaks Russian #8's
neck.


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Realizing they are without their flankers, Tay and four
Viet Guards call out and move toward their last positions.
They stand together at the top of the mudbank, gaping at
the two bodies of Russian #7 and #8.  Tay stares around,
outraged.  He yells to his squad to take up the chase.


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Rambo bursts out of the dense tangle, dragging streamers
of vines, and finds himself in an EXPLOSION OF SQUAWKING
CHICKENS.

He is in the muddy door-yard of a rural hutch, part of a
small hamlet, of about a dozen buildings.  Pigs scatter,
GRUNTING their surprise, as Rambo sprints across the yard.
Over a low rail fence.  Between the hutches.


EXT.  HAMLET - DAY

Soldiers charge down the slope behind him.


EXT.  HAMLET - DAY

Rambo emerges onto the main "street" at a dead run,
tearing a swath through the everyday village activities.

The Viet peasants scatter as the fierce American charges
through their midst.  A giant by their standards to begin
with, Rambo is now a mud-caked nightmare, trailing vines
and brambles... his face a mask of dark streaks topped by
encrusted hair... Villagers scream and flee... Rambo drops
low looking frantically for something beneath a hutch...
not finding it, he moves quickly to another... noticing a
large can, opens it, and smells its contents.


EXT.  HAMLET - DAY

WIDE FROM BEHIND the soldiers as they pour into the
village.  A figure dashes from the hutch into the field of
tall grass, disappearing.


EXT.  ROAD - EDGE OF GRASS - DAY

Two troop trucks are deploying 40 soldiers.  Directing
operations is Capt. Vinh.

Vinh motions the soldiers impatiently toward where he
stands at the edge of the elephant grass, and they wade
into it.  Beyond them the coarse grass becomes an
impenetrable wall almost eight feet high.

Vinh snorts in disgust and points at some trampled stalks.
There is a bright smear of blood, and beyond, another.

VINH
(Viet/subtitled)
You see?  Not a demon.  A man.  Now,
we find where he's crawled to die.


EXT.  TALL GRASS - DAY

A line of 20 regulars and three Russians move into the
grass.  Only the radio antennas of the squad leaders are
visible above the waving stalks.  Yushin's helicopter arcs
in from the distant ridgeline, converging.


EXT.  ELEPHANT GRASS - DAY

POV MOVING SLOWLY THROUGH THE GRASS.  The point man parts
the stalks ahead.  It is a quiet, eerie world, with only
the SWISH OF THE GRASS and the occasional SOUND-OFF CALLS
of the troopers.  There is a clear trail of blood smeared
on the grass, indicating a serious wound.

VARIOUS CLOSEUPS of the regulars as they advance, each man
realizing how utterly isolated he really is, in his own
island of space in the green sea.  It is hot.


EXT.  GRASS - DAY

One of the Russians has his fatigues unbuttoned, sleeves
rolled up.  Sweat pours off all of them.


EXT.  GRASS POV - DAY

POV FOLLOWING the trail of blood.  The grass is parted
ahead and a small clearing comes INTO VIEW.  Slowly moving
up on something lying in the grass.  Two chickens, their
throats cut, are lying beside a kerosene can, which is
upright with its cap off.  A bizarre little shrine.  There
is no sign of Rambo.


EXT.  GRASS - DAY

REVERSE on Capt. Vinh, puzzled, wary.

VINH
Everyone back!!


EXT.  GRASS - INSERT RAMBO - DAY

INSERT/RAMBO'S HAND striking a match, igniting a wet trail
of spilled gas, a WHOOSH.


EXT.  GRASS - DAY

Capt. Vinh looks up, seeing the river of fire snaking
toward him through the waving stalks.

He turns, panicked.  Crashes into the men behind him.

Shrieks at them to move.  They trample over each other to
run as the trail of fire reaches the can.

VOOM!


EXT.  GRASS - DAY

Vinh sees a tremendous fireball erupt ahead.  Hears
SCREAMING.  He freezes in his tracks as the nightmare
begins again.  Shrieking, a man runs toward him, on fire,
charging past.  Vinh shouts futilely into a radio as he's
engulfed in fire.


EXT.  GRASS - DAY

FIRING blindly, several troopers OPEN UP until they are
engulfed in the fire.


EXT.  HAMLET ROAD - DAY

From the trucks it is apparent that the grass is burning
on its own, in a long line where the "fuse" was laid out
and in a widening circle around the explosion site.


EXT.  EDGE OF GRASS - DAY

Black smoke rolls through the grass, and troopers stumble
about, coughing as the wind carries it toward them.


EXT.  HILL ABOVE ELEPHANT GRASS - DAY

CLOSEUP of Rambo as he drops a small silver explosive
charge into arrow shaft and screws on the razor tip.


EXT.  HILL ABOVE ELEPHANT GRASS - DAY

Rambo draws back his bow to full extension, and from his
elevated position, takes aim at the first troop truck...
The arrow buries itself near the truck and EXPLODES...
missing the truck.


EXT.  HILLSIDE - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo adjusts the sites on the bow and releases another
arrow.


EXT.  HAMLET - DAY

This time the arrow finds its mark and the truck EXPLODES.


EXT.  ELEPHANT GRASS - DAY

On the edge of the elephant grass, troopers help each
other flee.

Random FIRING is everywhere.  The DIN is incredible, the
pandemonium absolute.


EXT.  HILL - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo looks down into the field at devastation as flames
curl high into the morning mist... He pauses and almost
looks reflective for a moment... the copter moves closer
to Rambo's position.

CUT TO:

EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Rambo's sixth sense causes him to glance behind and he
spots Sgt. Tay's men approaching... Tay spies Rambo and
they OPEN FIRE.


EXT.  FOREST - RAMBO - DAY

With his bow still in his hand, lunges from view behind a
tree... He starts to belly crawl into the brush, as Tay
and three other soldiers think they have him pinned
down...


EXT.  FOREST - TAY - DAY

He signals and orders the men to flank the tree.  They do,
but are flanked by Rambo who steps INTO VIEW at a right
angle to their position and CUTS THEM DOWN, but is soon
out of ammo.


EXT.  FOREST - TAY - DAY

From his hiding spot Tay observes this and starts toward
Rambo after FIRING off a couple of shots.


EXT.  FOREST - RAMBO - DAY

He flees and takes cover behind a tree just as the bark is
ripped off near his head by Tay's AUTO-FIRE... Rambo dives
into the brush and instantly disappears from view.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - TAY - DAY

With growing apprehension, he moves forward, his body
tense, sensing the kill!  He hears Rambo's voice from
behind.

RAMBO
Here!

Tay turns and with his rifle at the ready, faces Rambo on
one knee with his bow fully extended.  The arrow sinks
into his chest, and Tay FIRES spasmodically.  For a split
second he grabs the un-extractable shaft and Rambo dives
for cover.  Tay's eyes widen with sudden realization, and
the next second his body EXPLODES into fragments.

CUT TO:

INT.  HUEY - DAY

Yushin talks into his radio headset.

YUSHIN
(Russian/subtitled)
Drop the napalm!

EXT.  HUEY - YUSHIN'S POV RAMBO - DAY

Through the trees' canopy, Yushin can see Rambo flashing
in and out of view.


EXT.  FOREST - RAMBO - DAY

watching as two long metal cylinders detach from the
helicopter and drop, tumbling toward the forest.


EXT.  FOREST - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo recognizes the napalm canisters and sprints even
harder.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - DAY

Rambo slashes through the trees like a madman.

Behind him, the napalm cannisters hit the ground.

An enormous FIREBALL blossoms through the jungle, spewing
twenty-meter-long arcs of flame, silhouetting the tiny
running figure of Rambo.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - DAY

Just as the firestorm reaches him, he dives at a dead run
off an embankment into a mountain river.


EXT.  RIVER - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo dives in as a sun-bright canopy of fire rushes
across the surface with a MUFFLED ROAR.


EXT.  RIVER - DAY

Surfacing, Rambo, moves at giddy speed over the tortuous
stream bed.


EXT.  RAVINE - WATERFALL - DAY

Rambo tumbles clear of the falling water as he drops down
the face of the cataract.

He hits the surface of the pool with a tremendous splash.


EXT.  POOL OF WATER - DAY

Boiling with turbulence as he surfaces, gasping.

Above, on the escarpment, a fire-storm rages, lighting up
the jungle.


EXT.  HUEY - TREELINE - DAY

as the Huey swoops down past the treeline, scanning the
jungle along the riverbank.


INT.  HUEY - DAY

Yushin swoops down toward Rambo who gasps for air.  The
MINIGUN BLASTS at him.

YUSHIN
(Russian/subtitled)
Goddamn him!!

CUT TO:

EXT.  RIVER - DAY

as Rambo breaks the surface of the water, eyes the
approaching chopper and dives again as the BULLETS start
pouring forth from the MINIGUN.


EXT.  RIVER - DAY

as the Huey descends over the treeline.  Yushin orders his
pilot down for a closer look.

The Huey hovers only inches from the water.  The water
swirls from the power of the rotor blades.


EXT.  RIVER - HUEY - DAY

as the surface EXPLODES and rising like a spirit from
hell, Rambo springs up from the river and grabs hold of
one of the skids.


EXT.  HUEY - DAY

Yushin's door gunner swings his M-60 around to bear on
Rambo.  But it's too late.

Rambo's hand shoots up and pulls him out.


INT.  HUEY - DAY

The pilot feels the weight shift and looks back, sees
Rambo on the skid.  He "pulls pitch" hard.


EXT.  HUEY - DAY

The Huey climbs, arcing radically.


EXT.  HUEY - DAY

Rambo slips.  Dangles.


EXT.  HUEY - DAY

He crashes through the upper branches of a tree as the
Huey climbs, banking in a tight arc.

He manages to heave himself up.


INT.  HUEY - DAY

Yushin spins to see a filthy, blood-encrusted Rambo coming
through the gun door.  Yushin charges as Rambo swings
inside.

Yushin draws his revolver but Rambo tackles him and drives
him into the control panel.

With his free hand, Yushin grabs Rambo violently by the
face digging his fingers into his eyes.

Rambo grimaces in agony.  He takes the side of his hand
and drives it into Yushin's throat.  He breaks the hold.
Rambo elbows him across the jaw.

Yushin grabs Rambo and flings him roughly against the
opposite side of the chopper.  He then kicks Rambo twice
and is about to stomp him when Rambo rolls to his knees
and drives his shoulder into Yushin's crotch and standing,
rams the Russian forward.  Yushin grabs Rambo's neck and
is crushing the life out of him... Rambo manages to drop
and twist free and kick Yushin in the face.

The pilot sees what is happening.  He banks hard, trying
to get Rambo to fall out the open door.

Rambo stumbles backward, but manages at the last second to
grab the barrel of the M-60 doorgun and is suspended out
the door.

Yushin grabs his pistol and aims as Rambo grabs his boot
knife with his free hand and flings it into Yushin's
chest...

The Russian staggers back then forward and raises his
pistol at Rambo.  At the last second he collapses and
falls forward and past Rambo who manages to pull his knife
from the Russian's body as he is falling.

The pilot struggles to maintain control and looks
terrified as Rambo swings up and advances on him.


EXT.  RIVER - DAY

A figure tumbles from the low-flying Huey and splashes
into the estuary.  The Huey dips and bucks, then rights
itself and flies off.


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Murdock looks like he hasn't slept in days.

Ericson approaches.

ERICSON
It's time...

MURDOCK
Yeah.  Alert everyone, start
packing, we're pulling out now.

Trautman walks in and hears the above.

TRAUTMAN
You're what?

MURDOCK
It's finished, Colonel...

Murdock exits.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - DAY

The SOUND OF A ROTOR gets louder.

A shadow falls upon the ten Viets and four Russians left
to guard the camp.

A shape, an outline... in the glare of the sun.

Then...


EXT.  RAMBO'S HUEY - DAY

Rambo unleashes the MINIGUN.  The left guard tower
vanishes in a cloud of falling splinters as THUNDER rolls
across the valley.

The Huey pivots nimbly.  The MINIGUN ROARS again.  An
orange lightning bolt vaporizes the right tower.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - GUARD BARRACKS - DAY

Three guards in the guards' barracks SHOOT at Rambo...
They are destroyed.


EXT.  PRISONERS' CAVE - DAY

Prisoners watch from their cell.


INT.  RAMBO'S HUEY POV - DAY

The guard barracks seems to disintegrate as the MINIGUN
sweeps across it... a shock wave of destruction behind
which only flying kindling remains.

He pivots a last time and annihilates the sentry post with
a one-second BURST.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP TRUCK - DAY

A few soldiers have managed to take cover behind a truck
by the main gate.  They begin FIRING.


EXT.  HUEY - LOW ANGLE - DAY

A ROARING silhouette in the metallic mist.  The MINIGUN
SPEAKS.

The truck is ripped open like aluminum foil, shrapnel
flying.  The soldiers cease to exist.

It is all over in seconds.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - DAY

The Huey settles to earth in the center of the compound.


EXT.  CAMP - DAY

Out of the boiling, blasting dust and smoke, the figure of
Rambo suddenly emerges.

Death incarnate encrusted with dried mud, dried blood,
streaked with rivulets of sweat.

Rambo has detached the door gun from its sling and with
the feed belt over his shoulder, carries it like a rifle.
He runs forward.


EXT.  PRISONERS' CAVE - DAY

Rambo moves to the prisoner's cage in a battle-ready
stance... Everywhere around him is smoking destruction.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP TREE - DAY

Hidden behind a tree, one Russian OPENS FIRE... Next to
the Russian is a mound of smooth rock.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAVE - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo FIRES at the rock.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - TREE - DAY

The bullets ricochet off and kill the Russian who staggers
out and falls face down.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAVE - DAY

Rambo runs to the prisoner's cage.  He shoots off the lock
and rips open the gate.  The five prisoners stare at him
in wide-eyed amazement.

RAMBO
Let's go!


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP COURTYARD - DAY

The five prisoners are helping one another into the Huey
as Rambo carries a sixth.


INT.  HUEY - DAY

Once aboard, the P.O.W.'s turn and look at their savior,
tears clouding some of their eyes.


EXT.  HUEY - DAY

Banks is covering Rambo who is hauling the last of the
P.O.W.'s onto the chopper.  Banks has an RPG slung over
his shoulder, and an AK in his hand.  A wounded Russian
opens fire and badly wounds the last P.O.W.


EXT.  HUEY - DAY

Banks levels his AK, killing the Russian and assists the
wounded P.O.W. on board, then climbs in himself.


EXT.  HUEY - CLOSEUP - DAY

The TURBINE WHINE INCREASES, and the Huey slowly lifts
off.



RAMBO HUEY/RUSSIAN HELICOPTER ATTACK SEQUENCE TO BE FILMED
AS PER STORYBOARDS.



INT./ EXT.  HUEY - DAY

Rambo seems drained of color, flying on nerve.

P.O.W.'s look forward as a broad river appears beyond a
ridgeline less than a kilometer ahead.

BANKS
That's Thailand?

Rambo nods, eyes riveted straight ahead.

BANKS
(continuing, to the
men)
We're home!  We're home!


INT.  HUEY - DAY

Rambo picks up the microphone.

RAMBO
Lone Wolf to Wolf Den -- Do you
read?


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Trautman and Murdock who have been waiting for further
transmission suddenly hear Rambo's transmission.

TECH
We hear you, Lone Wolf.  Come in.


INT.  HUEY - DAY

Rambo talking into the microphone.

RAMBO
Prepare for emergency landing.
Arriving with American P.O.W.'s!
Over?


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Everyone freezes as they wait for orders from Murdock...
He remains silent -- eyes are shifting.  Ericson looks at
Trautman who yells...

TRAUTMAN
You heard.  Prepare for arriving
P.O.W.'s.

The personnel await Murdock's confirmation -- there is
none forthcoming.  They look at Trautman, then suddenly
begin to scatter.


EXT.  HANGER - DAY

Rambo's burning Huey descends toward the landing field.
As the techs and other camp personnel stand watching,
Murdock raises a pair of powerful field glasses.


EXT.  HANGER - MURDOCK'S POV - TELEPHOTO - DAY

The image of the burning, mortally wounded Huey seems to
waver through the long lens.  It looks like a death ship,
the Flying Dutchman with a crew of corpses and a demon at
the helm, coming in out of the sky.


EXT.  HANGER - MURDOCK - DAY

He slowly lowers the glasses.

Face ashen, Murdock heads into the operations hanger.


INT.  HUEY - DAY

The chopper is burning badly and filling with black smoke.


EXT.  HUEY - DAY

The Huey sheers sideways across the staging area.  Its
skids clip the top of the wires shearing off
communications gear.

It hits the ground.  Bounces and plows forward into the
operations hanger.


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Firefighters with extinguishers envelop the burning
chopper in foam.


INT.  HANGER - HUEY - DAY

The P.O.W.'s are pulled from the chopper.


INT.  HANGER - RAMBO - DAY

He slides out of the flight seat and goes out the door.
He quickly eyes Trautman then moves off into the hanger.


INT.  HANGER - DAY

DOLLYING with Rambo as he heads past the mountain of
communications equipment with relentless determination.
The technical personnel fall back, letting him pass...
Dust is everywhere.


INT.  HANGER - TRAUTMAN - DAY

He sees Rambo and strides forward to intercept him, then
pauses.


INT.  HANGER - RAMBO - DAY

He shoves the equipment aside that is blocking his path to
Murdock, who is seen retreating.  Ericson stands in his
way.  Rambo, without breaking stride, clubs him with the
butt of his knife.


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Rambo moving, silhouetted, closer to the HUMMING
communications area, reeking of jungle, blood and death...
Murdock is against the wall... no where to hide.


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Rambo closes in on Murdock, looming.  Murdock starts to
move away, Rambo grabs him from behind, spins him down on
top of a crate and raises his knife.

RAMBO
We win... you lose!  Mission
Accomplished!

And with all his strength impales it next to Murdock's
terrified face.

RAMBO
(softly)
There's more men still out there,
find them, or I'll find you.


EXT.  HANGER - DAY

Rambo steps steadily out into the waning light.  He takes
a deep, slow breath.  Starts to walk and sees Banks in the
distance.

BANKS
(weakly)
... Thanks.

Rambo nods back...

In the b.g., they are carrying the P.O.W.'s stretchers or
pushing them in wheelchairs toward the medical facility.

Everyone stares at Rambo with respect.


EXT.  HANGER - DAY

Trautman steps in alongside Rambo.

TRAUTMAN
John... Where are you going?

RAMBO
... I don't know.

TRAUTMAN
You'll get a second medal of honor
for this.

RAMBO
You should give it to them...
(indicates P.O.W.'s)
They deserve it more.

TRAUTMAN
You can't keep running.  You're free
now... Come back with us.

RAMBO
Back to what? -- My friends died
here... part of me died here.

TRAUTMAN
John, the war, everything that
happened here may have been wrong,
but dammit, John, you can't hate
your country for it.

RAMBO
Hate? -- I'd die for it.

TRAUTMAN
Then, what is it you want?

RAMBO
What do I want?  I want what they
want...
(indicates P.O.W.'s)
And what every other guy who came
over here and spilled his guts and
gave everything he had wants... for
our country to love us as much as we
love it... That's what I want.  And
that's what they wanted.
(indicates P.O.W.'s)

TRAUTMAN
How will you live, John?

RAMBO
Day by day.

Rambo walks with his head held high until he fades into
the smoke and distance.

FADE OUT.

THE END
